Hello and welcome.
This lectures all about prefab variance so you can see we've got two variants here in the scene.
One is my play that I can move around.
That's one difference between them but they are both doing the idle animation so that's one similarity
between them there's more differences and similarities such as I can attack this guy but I cannot attack
myself if I try and click on myself I cannot attack myself which is cool.
I also have a different health to this guy.
So if I click on the player and look in the inspector at my health component I've got 100 health the
enemy instead has 15 because I just took a punch out of him.
But he had 20 to begin with.
So differences and similarities being shared through our prefab variance system.
Let's dive in and see how we can do that so at the time being what we've got is a set of prefabs that
are currently all the same because we've made no modifications in the enemy or the player.
Obviously that's not how we want things to go.
We want the player an enemy to be different.
And one of the first ways we want them to be different is in their look.
In fact let's go up to the scene first of all and put our new prefabs in the scene because what we've
currently got here this play prefab is not what it seems if you go and select it it's actually pointing
to the character.
So if you have the player selected again go to the prefab and click selecting the inspector up on top
right.
And selects what it's actually pointing to and that is the character.
So this isn't what we want.
We want the player in here it's for the player prefab in looks identical for now.
And our enemy should be this enemy prefab and we can go ahead and rotate it around to face us so that
when we go and punch him up things are happening.
Now I want my enemy to be different to my player so well I might be tempted to do is go into my enemy
prefab open it up by double clicking on it and then I might want to delete this character night soldier
link to this sub prefab nested prefab and you'll see it says cannot restructure prefab instances children
of a prefab instance cannot be deleted or removed and components cannot be reordered so we can't remove
components we can't remove game objects in a child so well we can remove components you can't remove
game objects.
So what we have to do is if we want different prefabs in here which is fine we're just going to have
to remove them from the parent.
So the aim is to delete it from the parent but maintain it on the enemy.
So we might try and copy it from the enemy so we've got it in our copy buffer then go to the parent
and remove the prefab link from the parent so it won't be in the enemy or the player.
So you can check that out in the enemy it's not there and in the player it's not.
So we're going to try and paste that prefab that we have in the copy buffer back in but you'll notice
that this is currently not linked it's not linked to the prefab because copying and pasting it doesn't
preserve that link it would seem.
So instead we can go back to where we got it from in the first place which was our asset pack folder
since the polygon assets and the prefabs and we can pull in the assets that we used which I think was
the character one you can might be using it the other way round which is fine and let's just check that's
within our capsule correctly.
So that seems okay to me.
Or go ahead and look at the game.
Yeah we've got a player but the enemy is invisible so the enemy wants to look different.
So let's go into our enemy prefab which is currently empty and let's drag in the other prefab from our
asset pack to this guy with the helmet.
They both have helmets.
This guy's got more of a round helmets and the other one's got one with a brim.
And now if we go back to our scene you can see that they're both standing there in the scene but they
both share a route which is quite cool.
So now if I go to my game folder two characters again you can see that the character preview has nothing
to show because there's no models in there but the enemy and player are looking different.
So this is fun.
This is cool.
Now what happens when we actually play the game.
Can I go and beat up the enemy No.
In fact what's quite interesting is for a start my camera's not moving that's easy to fix that's just
a follow camera hasn't got a target set up but four seconds if I move then the enemy tries to move there
too.
And that's kind of weird.
So I'm going to leave that as a little challenge for you to figure out if you can stop the enemy from
moving when we're moving and the other thing is is that elbow.
There's a bunch of scripts on enemy old that need to be moved across to our enemy and potentially to
both characters for example health might be some property that you want on both the player and the enemy
combat target might be something that you want on the player or the enemy again.
Have a think about that do you want it on both.
And how about capsule colliders do you need that in order to be able to attack the enemy or attack you
for them to be able to attack you so you can have a think about these components that are on any old
as well they're just a little tip before you do this challenge remember you can always copy a whole
component by going to the cog next to the component and doing copy components and if you then want to
paste that whole component somewhere say I wants to do combat target on play I'm not going to but say
I did then I can hit a cog next to any of these components in here and do paste component as new now
create a new component and paste all of the values that you already had there so you don't lose any
of the configuration you already had.
It's a great way if you need to move things between prefabs and you don't have an option to do so because
they're not linked to the parents and you can't just apply to parent for example.
So that's going to be your challenge to migrate the enemy old and eventually delete it.
So the enemy isn't controlled.
That's one thing that should happen when you click around the enemy shouldn't follow your mouse obviously
investigate all components on enemy old and move them across were either into the character or into
the enemy.
Have a think about that and also you might want to have a look at components are in character and see
whether they all belong there or whether they should be moved across to player and moved basically down
so they shouldn't exist on player that's just a little hint there.
So a video and have a go OK.
Welcome back.
So what we're going to do first the moving around that's happening because we have the play controller
script up at the character level being shared between both.
So you might be tempted to remove it at the enemy level but really if we took anything else of character
it would also not be player controlled only the player is player controlled.
So I'm going to remove it from the character level of our prefab wing so open up the character go to
the player controller script in the inspector click on the cog copy component first and then I'm going
to remove the component.
Now I'm going to go to the player and I am going to add that on to the player variants of the prefab
by clicking on the cog and pasting the component is new at the top level of that prefab and you can
see this shows up as a modification a component that is added on this player prefab variant.
So that should stop it moving around.
Now if we click anywhere in the world only our player moves and not the enemy.
That's good.
Now our next pain is that we can actually attack the enemy why is that we just move through the enemy
a few reasons.
That's going to have a look at enemy old and see what it's missing.
So one thing that's missing is a combat target that might be a reason for not being able to get there
get to it.
And the health where does a combat target belong.
I reckon that belongs on the enemy because we can't target the player itself.
So it should belong here on the enemy.
I'm just going to go ahead and paste the component as new on when I have the enemy prefab open and that
adds it isn't it as a variation on this particular enemy prefab.
Now it goes to the enemy old again.
What else do we want.
Probably want the health script.
Where should that belong in a copy component.
I think it should belong in character because both we and the enemy share the fact that we've got health
so paste the component as new and I might change this value so I might change it to 100 as a default
but then go into the enemy and click the cog next to the health script and paste the component values.
So the enemy has a default health of 20 and you can see that has been overridden again in this variant.
So the enemy will have 20 health but we will have 100 because we stick with a default from character.
What else an enemy old.
Few other things not sure that we need them.
Let's go ahead and hit play and see whether we do okay.
I try and click on the enemy it's still not working.
The reason for this is because I recast isn't hitting the enemy because we need the capsule collider.
So if I copy the component the capsule collider component not just the enemy that needs it.
Or is it maybe because at the moment we're only using it for that right cast if we need it for something
else we might add it on to the character as well or move it up to the character rather.
So I'm gonna paste this capsule component as it comes to collider as new and hopefully now we should
be able to click on this enemy and start punching it.
Perfect.
So he's now as you can see he's even playing that same idle animation because fundamentally we have
the same animator right up in character as an animator defined somewhere.
Here it is and it is using the same controller now.
Note that if you are using different models and you need a different Avatar then you might need to override
the avatar in the enemy but you'll still be using the same animator controller.
So all of our animations are automatically share all the fighter logic is shared.
We just need at the moment an enemy A.I. to drive the fighter logic but we'll get to that in the next
section.
So great stuff.
We now have the enemy and the player all based off of one root prefab and we can delete this old enemy
we don't need him anymore and we've got ourselves to cool looking characters.
I will see you in the next lecture where you're going to be bringing in some death animations.
Have fun.